README.md, before:

# Oxygen Foundation

[![Latest Version on Packagist][ico-version]][link-packagist]
[![Software License][ico-license]](LICENSE.md)

### Version Compatibility

| Laravel Version | This Package Version |       Branch |
|----------------:|---------------------:|-------------:|
|             v10 |                  3.x |          3.x |  
|              v9 |                  2.x |          2.x |  
|              v8 |                  1.x | version/v1.x |  

See [CHANGE LOG](CHANGELOG.md) for change history.

## Install

Install via Composer

``` bash
composer require elegantmedia/oxygen-foundation
```

Install the Foundation
```
php artisan oxygen:foundation:install
```

## How to use

Run all extension seeders

``` php
php artisan oxygen:seed
```

### Available Functions

``` php 
// Check if a feature exists
has_feature('features.name'): bool

// Convert a date to Standard date-time format
standard_datetime($date);

// Convert a date to Standard date format
standard_date($date);

// Convert a date to Standard time format
standard_time($date);
```

### Models

Make a Model Searchable

``` php
use Laravel\Scout\Searchable;
use Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model;

class Car extends Model implements KeywordSearchable
{
    use Searchable;

	public function getSearchableFields(): array
	{
		return [
			'make',
			'model',
		];
	}
}
```

### Components

#### Menu Navigator

You can use the `Navigator` to create Navigation Menus that can be used across the application. The `Navigator` only stores the data and doesn't actually render a menu.

The `Navigator` can be used by any package to register navigation menu items. By default, all menu items will be added to a `NavBar` named `default`.

``` php
use \ElegantMedia\OxygenFoundation\Navigation\NavItem;
use \ElegantMedia\OxygenFoundation\Facades\Navigator;

// Create a NavItem
$navItem = new NavItem('Profile');
$navItem->setResource('admin.users.index')
        ->setOrder(2)
        ->setClass('fas fa-users');

// Add to default NavBar
Navigator::addItem($navItem);

// Add to a custom navbar
Navigator::addItem($navItem, 'second-navbar');
```

Fetching the Menu Items
``` php
// Get the Navigator instance
$navigator = \Navigator::get();

// Get all NavItems for the default NavBar
$items = \Navigator::items();

// Get all NavItems for a custom NavBar
$items = \Navigator::items('second-navbar');
```

NavItem Properties

These are a few examples of available properties.

``` php
$navItem = new NavItem();

// Set displayed text
$navItem->setText('My Profile');

// Set URL
$navItem->setUrl('/profile');

// Set Route Resource By Name
$navItem->setResource('view.profile');

// Set Class
$navItem->setClass('menu-lg');

// Set Icon Class
$navItem->setIconClass('fas fa-users');

// Set Item Order
$navItem->setOrder(2);

// Set Item ID (useful if you need to fetch the same item later)
// By default, the ID will be the URL
$navItem->setId('my-unique-id-1234');
```

Hide Menu Items

You can explicitly hide menu items from all users by marking an item as hidden. Or you can use the Navigator class.

``` php
// Get the Navigator instance
$navigator = \Navigator::get();

// Hide an item from the default menu. You have to pass the Item ID, which is the URL by default.
\Navigator::hideItem('/projects');

// Hiden an item from another menu
\Navigator::hideItem('/settings', 'second-menu-name');
```

Example on how to render Navigation within a Blade template

``` php
<ul>
    @foreach (\Navigator::getNavBar('default')->items() as $item)
        @if ($item->isUserAllowedToSee())
            <li>
                @if ($item->hasUrl())
                    <a href="{{ $item->getUrl() }}">
                        @endif
                        @if ($item->hasIcon())
                            <i class="{{ $item->icon_class }}"></i>
                        @endif
                        <span>{{ $item->text }}</span>
                        @if ($item->hasUrl())
                    </a>
                @endif
            </li>
        @endif
    @endforeach
</ul>
```



## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) and for details.

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Copyright (c) 2022 Elegant Media.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/elegantmedia/oxygen-foundation.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-license]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square

[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/elegantmedia/oxygen-foundation

Commit message:

feat: complete OxygenFoundation v5.0.0 upgrade for Laravel 12 support
Major changes:
- Updated dependencies for Laravel 12 and PHP 8.2+
- Reorganized namespaces (OxygenRepository → BaseRepository)
- Modernized HTTP traits (Web\Can* → Controllers\Has*Operation)
- Fixed SQL injection vulnerability in Scout integration
- Added secure token generation traits
- Applied PHP 8.2 features throughout codebase
- Added comprehensive test suite with unit tests
- Fixed ExtensionInstallCommand route updating bug

BREAKING CHANGES:
- Requires PHP 8.2+ and Laravel 12.x
- Renamed OxygenRepository to BaseRepository
- Changed namespace for HTTP traits
- Updated trait names (AssignsUuid → HasUuid)
- Removed deprecated methods and classes

See UPGRADE-v5.md for detailed migration guide

README.md, after:

# Oxygen Foundation

[![Latest Version on Packagist][ico-version]][link-packagist]
[![Software License][ico-license]](LICENSE.md)

### Version Compatibility

| Laravel Version | This Package Version |       Branch | PHP Version |
|----------------:|---------------------:|-------------:|------------:|
|             v12 |                  5.x |          5.x |     ^8.2    |
|             v10 |                  3.x |          3.x |     ^8.1    |
|              v9 |                  2.x |          2.x |     ^8.0    |
|              v8 |                  1.x | version/v1.x |     ^7.3    |  

See [CHANGE LOG](CHANGELOG.md) for change history.

## Upgrading

If you're upgrading from v4 to v5, please see the [Upgrade Guide](UPGRADE-v5.md) for detailed instructions.

## Install

Install via Composer

``` bash
composer require elegantmedia/oxygen-foundation
```

Install the Foundation
```
php artisan oxygen:foundation:install
```

## How to use

Run all extension seeders

``` php
php artisan oxygen:seed
```

### Available Functions

``` php 
// Check if a feature exists
has_feature('features.name'): bool

// Convert a date to Standard date-time format
standard_datetime($date);

// Convert a date to Standard date format
standard_date($date);

// Convert a date to Standard time format
standard_time($date);
```

### Models

Make a Model Searchable

``` php
use Laravel\Scout\Searchable;
use Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model;

class Car extends Model implements KeywordSearchable
{
    use Searchable;

	public function getSearchableFields(): array
	{
		return [
			'make',
			'model',
		];
	}
}
```

### Components

#### Menu Navigator

You can use the `Navigator` to create Navigation Menus that can be used across the application. The `Navigator` only stores the data and doesn't actually render a menu.

The `Navigator` can be used by any package to register navigation menu items. By default, all menu items will be added to a `NavBar` named `default`.

``` php
use \ElegantMedia\OxygenFoundation\Navigation\NavItem;
use \ElegantMedia\OxygenFoundation\Facades\Navigator;

// Create a NavItem
$navItem = new NavItem('Profile');
$navItem->setResource('admin.users.index')
        ->setOrder(2)
        ->setClass('fas fa-users');

// Add to default NavBar
Navigator::addItem($navItem);

// Add to a custom navbar
Navigator::addItem($navItem, 'second-navbar');
```

Fetching the Menu Items
``` php
// Get the Navigator instance
$navigator = \Navigator::get();

// Get all NavItems for the default NavBar
$items = \Navigator::items();

// Get all NavItems for a custom NavBar
$items = \Navigator::items('second-navbar');
```

NavItem Properties

These are a few examples of available properties.

``` php
$navItem = new NavItem();

// Set displayed text
$navItem->setText('My Profile');

// Set URL
$navItem->setUrl('/profile');

// Set Route Resource By Name
$navItem->setResource('view.profile');

// Set Class
$navItem->setClass('menu-lg');

// Set Icon Class
$navItem->setIconClass('fas fa-users');

// Set Item Order
$navItem->setOrder(2);

// Set Item ID (useful if you need to fetch the same item later)
// By default, the ID will be the URL
$navItem->setId('my-unique-id-1234');
```

Hide Menu Items

You can explicitly hide menu items from all users by marking an item as hidden. Or you can use the Navigator class.

``` php
// Get the Navigator instance
$navigator = \Navigator::get();

// Hide an item from the default menu. You have to pass the Item ID, which is the URL by default.
\Navigator::hideItem('/projects');

// Hiden an item from another menu
\Navigator::hideItem('/settings', 'second-menu-name');
```

Example on how to render Navigation within a Blade template

``` php
<ul>
    @foreach (\Navigator::getNavBar('default')->items() as $item)
        @if ($item->isUserAllowedToSee())
            <li>
                @if ($item->hasUrl())
                    <a href="{{ $item->getUrl() }}">
                        @endif
                        @if ($item->hasIcon())
                            <i class="{{ $item->icon_class }}"></i>
                        @endif
                        <span>{{ $item->text }}</span>
                        @if ($item->hasUrl())
                    </a>
                @endif
            </li>
        @endif
    @endforeach
</ul>
```



## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) and for details.

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Copyright (c) 2022 Elegant Media.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/elegantmedia/oxygen-foundation.svg?style=flat-square
[ico-license]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square

[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/elegantmedia/oxygen-foundation
